---
layout: post
title: "Pycon Pune 2017: A wonderful Python conference"
date: "2017-03-14 18:18:02 +0530"
tag: python conference
---

## tl;dr

The conference is worth to attend if you are a student, programmer or a
hobbyist.  You are swag-hungry then don't expect much as a swag from this
conference. You are a Devsprint lover, then this conference has the coolest
Devsprint. A great number of keynotes speackers are invited for this conference.


## Detailed Experience

Because I was volunteering for this conference I reached Pune one day earlier
from the conference days. The volunteer meeting was happening at Reserved-bit.

### Volunteer

#### Reserved-bit

[Reserved-bit][reservedbit] is the best hackerspace I have ever come across. It
has a large collection of programmable boards. You will find boards like
[Raspberry Pi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Raspberry_Pi), [Bana
Pi](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Banana_Pi),
[Dragonboard](https://developer.qualcomm.com/hardware/dragonboard-410c),
[Bigalbon](https://www.bigalsmods.com/product-p/1001.htm),
[BBC-microbit](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Micro_Bit) and the 3D printer. More
on, this space has a great collection of books on Compilers and Embedded
programming. I managed to found few on Open source too. The owners are great
hackers. You will love to interact with hacker [Siddhesh
Poyarekar](https://siddhesh.in/). Hacker [Nisha
Poyarekar](https://twitter.com/nisha_poyarekar) is volunteering the [PyLadies
community](https://www.meetup.com/PyLadies-Pune/) at Pune.

#### Pune to Mumbai

I spent my half day in this space. I got the responsibility of picking one of
the keynote speakers landing at Mumbai airport midnight. To be frank, estimation
of Google map between Pune to Mumbai is wrong. It showed nearly 2 hours but it
took almost 4.5 hours to reach Mumbai. Few more minutes to reach the airport.
The road is impressively smooth. You will encounter beautiful mountains of
[Lonavla](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lonavla). The task of moving from Pune
to Mumbai airport, receive Katie and come back to Pune completed in almost 13
hours. I left from Pune around 4.30 PM and came back nearby 5 AM next day early
morning.

#### Illness during conference

Because I did the huge amount of traveling at that night, I was unable to get
enough sleep. Such tiredness resulted as an eye infection. I managed to attend
the first day of the conference, but I was not in a condition to attend the
second day. Treatment of local doctor healed me 2 days and then I was able to
take part into Dev sprints.

### Conference

The conference was of total 4 days where initial two days were for the talks and
end was assigned for a Devsprint. It didn't bombard with many tracks but gave
quality talks presented in a single track. Timings were from 9 AM to 5 PM which
was taken little lightly by the attendees.

I was pretty impressed with the keynote speakers of this conference.

#### [Katie Cunningham](https://twitter.com/kcunning)

Katie is the O'Reilly author. Her
[book](http://shop.oreilly.com/product/0636920024514.do) on Accessibility
depicts her area of expertise. She is fun to talk. She likes to listen about
developer communities, writing and most importantly computer games. Her broad
vision on product development is amazing. She is an avid reader. I enjoyed
listening to her experience of being in India very first time.

#### [Honza Kral](https://twitter.com/honzakral)

Honza is the dude who loves contributing to
[Django](https://www.djangoproject.com/). He is the core contributor of Django
too. He hacks on Python drivers at the [Elastic](https://www.elastic.co/). I was
impressed with his suggestions on code design problem I was trying to solve from
past few months.  His suggestions on code design are worth noticing. He is
Vimmer and maintains little [vim](http://vim.org) plugins as a part of his
interest.

#### [Stephen J. Turnbull](https://twitter.com/yasegumi)

Stephen professes the Dismal Science of Economics. His knowledge is deep-rooted
just like his beard. You will enjoy discussing on Computer science, books and
his experience of programming. He is authoring few books written in the Japanese
language. Stephen is [Emacsite](https://www.gnu.org/s/emacs/).

#### [Terri Oda](https://twitter.com/terriko)

Terri is a security nerd. She spent most of her time exploring tools at Intel.
Terri knows how to hide from the spying of the U.S. Government. She is leading
[Google Summer of Code](https://summerofcode.withgoogle.com/) section from
[Python Software Foundation](https://www.python.org/psf/). Terri is PSF
community service award winner. If you are a student and want to take part in
GSoC choosing Python as your organization then She is the right person to talk.

#### [Nick Coghlan](https://twitter.com/ncoghlan_dev)

Nick listens more than he speaks. I will advise to not disturb him if he is
coding. He enjoys being concentrated while coding. It was the great experience
of getting his mentorship. He is contributing to [Core
Python](https://github.com/python/cpython) for a few decades now.  You will
enjoy discussing on interesting code compositions with him. He is a Red Hatter.

#### [Praveen Patil](https://twitter.com/_gnovi)

Unfortunately, I didn't get much time to talk with Praveen during this
conference. He is a Math teacher who teaches concepts of Mathematics using
Python programming language. You should feel confident to speak with him on
Python in Education and Mathematics with him.

#### [Florian Fuchs](https://github.com/flofuchs)

His knowledge on [ReST
API](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Representational_state_transfer) construction
is the best. He is [Falcon](https://falconframework.org/) nerd too. I enjoyed
discussing on various authentication mechanisms for ReST API with him.  He is
the Red hatter.

#### [John Hawley](https://github.com/warthog9)

John is the wittiest person in my known. His lines always end with a humor. He
hacks mostly on hardware and the GNU/Linux. Micro Python and GNU/Linux should be
considered as his part of interests.

I am sad to declare that I was unable to attend any keynote speeches because of
the illness. Mostly I rested at the hotel or talked with people during the
conference days.

#### Volunteer Party

If you are volunteering for this conference, then you will be invited to a
volunteer dinner party. We enjoyed party colored disco lights dancing on the
bits of the DJ. The Punjabi food and if you are above 25 than you were allowed
to take a sip of a beer.

#### Devsprint

Devsprint happen at the [Redhat Headquarters,
Pune](https://goo.gl/maps/mXeirzQhPFz). I found the building has tight security.
You will find an individual pantry section dedicated to each department. We were
instructed to hack at huge cafeteria section. I myself contributed to Core
Python. Nick Coghlan was mentoring for Core Python. I managed to review one PR,
find one broken test case and written fix of an existing issue with the help of
him. Honza was leading the development of Django web framework. A team of [Anand
Chitipothu](http://anandology.com/) mentored for [Web2py](www.web2py.com/).
[Farhaan Bukhsh](https://twitter.com/fhackdroid) mentored for
[Pagure](https://github.com/pypingou/pagure). John Hawley encouraged on
contributing to [MicroPython](https://micropython.org/). Terr Oda, Stephen
Turnbull and Florian Fuchs mentored for
[GNU/Mailman](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/GNU_Mailman).


#### Why to attend this conference?

* This conference has coolest Devsprint. The organizers understand the value of
  the Devsprint in a conference. I have never observed such importance of
  Devsprint at any other Python conference happening in India.

* If you are a student, then this is the beginner friendly conference. You
  should not be a worry to attend if you are a Python noobs. You will receive a
  student concession for the tickets too.

* If you are a developer, coming to this conference will inspire you to grow
  from your present level. You will meet core contributors, lead programmers,
  owners of startup, project managers. You will find the huge scope of
  networking with people.

* The conference is single track event. This decision was helped me to not loose
  the interesting talks. In my previous experience, parallel tracks killed me to
  leave one and attend other despite I am interested in attending both.

* I have never seen such huge amount of keynote speakers at any conference
  happening in India. Keynote speakers were the main attraction of this
  conference.

#### What was missing?

* If you are a swag-hungry fellow than attending this conference will not worth
  to you. The conference attendees has to be satisfied with the conference
  T-shirt.

* I observed the number of corporate stalls was less than compared to other
  Python conferences. A stole from Reserved-bit, Redhat and PSF community stall
  was there.

* A workshop section was completely missing. In my opinion, the workshop helps
  the beginners to start. There were few topics which can be better represented
  as workshop rather than a talk.

* I was unable to observe any dedicated section for an Open space discussion.
  This section is helpful for communities, contributors to discuss on
  interesting problems and reasoned together.

[reservedbit]: https://reserved-bit.com
