---
layout: post
title: Visit to Indian Linux User Group, Chennai
tag: ILUG-C
excerpt: >
  Lately I was travelling to Chennai for some personal work. I was very clear on
  meeting Mr. Shakthi Kannan. While travelling to Chennai I dropped a mail
---

![Indian Linux User Group Chennai]({{site.url}}/assets/images/ilugc.jpg)

Lately I was travelling to [Chennai](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chennai)
for some personal work. I was very clear on meeting [Mr. Shakthi
Kannan](http://shakthimaan.com/). While travelling to Chennai I dropped a mail
inquiring about his availability. He replied with an invitation to attend the
Meetup of [Indian Linux Users Group,
Chennai](https://www.meetup.com/ILUG-C/events/234086665/) scheduled at IIT
Madras. I happily accepted the invitation and decided to attend the Meetup.

The Meetup was happening in the AeroSpace Engineering department, IIT Madras.
The campus is so huge that it took 15 minute bus journey to get to the
department. Because I was late, I missed the initial talk on Emacs Org mode by
Shakthi. I was lucky enough to attend lightning talk section. When I entered
one young boy was demonstrating
[BeFF](http://tools.kali.org/exploitation-tools/beef-xss). I was not aware
about this tool before his talk. After his words I realized BeFF is a
penetration testing tool and now I am confident for switching to its
documentation and start going through it. His talk ended with little discussion
on doubts. Nearly one hour was still remaining Shakthi came forward and invited
interested people to present a lightning talk. That sure rang a bell! I was not
sure about attending Meetup and presenting something instantly was looking
tough. Mohan moved forward and demonstrated How memory mapping works in
GNU/Linux system.  During his talk I quickly skimmed on a list of topics I was
aware about and I decided to speak on [JSON Web
Token](https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/JSON_Web_Token). I introduced myself and
demonstrated ways to generate a secure token. Discussed about architecture a
bit and gave few guidelines, points to remember. I ended my talk with comparing
[Oauth 2.0](https://oauth.net/2/) with JWT. Few interested people asked
questions and I was lucky enough to solve their confusions.

I realized it is good to have small and interested audience than having large
and distracted audience. This group has nice experienced people in the
GNU/Linux domain. If Chennai is your town, I will promote you to join this
group and get involved.


###### Proofreaders: [Shakthi Kannan](http://shakthimaan.com/), [Harsh Vardhan](https://github.com/vharsh)
