---
layout: post
title: "Django girls Bangalore 2017"
date: "2017-11-14 08:01:25 +0530"
tag:
  - django
  - python
  - djangogirls
---

TL;DR

Last Sunday, Django girls Bangalore organized a hands-on session of Django. This
is small event report from my side.

Django girls is not for profit initiative led by Ola Sitarska and Ola Sendecka.
Such movement helps women to learn the skills of website development using the
well-known web-framework Django. This community is backed by organizers from
many countries of this world. Organizations like The Python Software Foundation,
Github, DjangoProject and much more are funding Django girls.

Django girls Bangalore chapter was organized by Sourav Singh and Kumar Anirudha.
It was my second time mentoring for the Django girls event. First was for
Ahmedabad chapter. The venue was sponsored by HackerEarth. X male and 2 women
mentored X women during this event. Each mentor was assigned more or less 3
participants. Introducing newbie with web development becomes easy with the help
of Django girls handbook. The Django girls handbook is a combination of
beginner-friendly hands-on tutorials described in a simple language. The
handbook contains tutorials on basics of Python programming language to
deploying your application. Pupils under me were already ready by
pre-configuring Python with their workstation. We started by introducing our
selves. We took some time browsing the website of undersea cables. One of the
amusing questions I got is, “Isn't the world connected with Satellites?”. My
team was comfortable with the Python, so we quickly skimmed to the part where I
introduced them to the basics of web and then Django. I noticed mentors were
progressing according to the convenience of participants. Nice amount of time
was invested in discussing raised queries. During illumination, we heard a loud
call for the lunch. A decent meal was served to all the members. I networked
with other mentors and participants during the break. Post-lunch we created a
blog app and configured it with our existing project. Introducing newbie with
Django models and ORM took little efforts. With the time as a constraint, I
focused on admin panel and taught girls about deploying their websites to
PythonAnywhere. I am happy with the hard work done by my team. They were able to
demonstrate what they did to the world. I was more joyful than them for such
achievement.

The closing ceremony turned amusing event for us. 10 copies of Two scopes of
Django book were distributed to the participants chosen by random draw strategy.
I solemnly thank the authors of the book and Pothi.com for gifting such a nice
reference. Participants shared their experiences of the day. Mentors pinpointed
helpful resources to look after. They insisted girls to not satisfy at such
point and open their wings by developing websites using skills they learned.
T-shirts, stickers and badges were distributed as event swags.

You can find the list of all Django girls chapters here. Djangonuts are shouted
to become a mentor for Django girls events in your town. If you are not finding
any in your town, I must insist you take the responsibility and organize one for
your town. If you are already a part of Django girls community, Why are you not
sharing your experience with others?
