---
layout: post
title: "Pydelhi Conf 2017: A beautiful conference happened in New Delhi, India"
date: "2017-07-21 18:14:03 +0530"
tag:
  - python
  - conference
  - django
  - talks
---

![Pydelhi Conf
2017]({{site.url}}/assets/images/pydelhi_conf_2017/group_photo.jpg)

## TL;DR

[PyDelhi conf 2017][pydelhi_conf_2017] was a two-day conference which served
talks, lightning talks, workshops and dev sprint. If you are a beginner,
attending this conference is worth because there are free workshops. If you are
an experienced, attending this conference is worth because of curated advanced
level talks. Delhiite should not miss the chance to attend this conference. I
conducted a workshop titled **“Tango with Django”** helping beginners to
understand Django web framework.


## Detailed Review


### About the [PyDelhi community][pydelhi_community]


![Pydelhi
Community]({{site.url}}/assets/images/pydelhi_conf_2017/pydelhi_community.jpg)

<p class="center"> Pydelhi conf 2017 volunteers </p>

The [Pydelhi community][pydelhi_community] was known as NCR Python Users Group
before few years. This community is performing a role of an umbrella
organization for other FLOSS communities across New Delhi, India. They are
actively arranging monthly [meetups][pydelhi_meetup] on interesting topics. Last
[Pycon India](https://in.pycon.org/2016/) which is a national level conference
of Python programming language was impressively organized by this community.
This year too they took the responsibility of managing it. I am very thankful to
this community for their immense contribution to this society. If you are around
New Delhi, India then you should not miss the chance to attend their
[meetups][pydelhi_meetup]. This community has great people to whom you would
like to meet and share your knowledge.


### [Pydelhi conf 2017][pydelhi_conf_2017]


![Conference T-shirt]({{site.url}}/assets/images/pydelhi_conf_2017/t_shirt.jpg)

<p class="center"> Conference T-shirt </p>

Pydelhi conf is a regional level conference of Python programming language
organized by PyDelhi community. [Pydelhi conf 2017][pydelhi_conf_2017] was
two-day conference targeting talks and workshops scheduled last March. It was
their second year of organizing this conference. Last year It was located at
[JNU University](www.jnu.ac.in). This year it happened at [IIM,
Lucknow](https://www.iiml.ac.in/) campus based in Noida, New Delhi, India. I
enjoyed various talks which I will mention later here, a workshops section
because I was conducting one and some the panel discussions because people
involved were having a good level of experience. 80% of the time slot was
divided equally between 30 minutes talk and 2-hour workshop section.  10% were
given to panel discussions and 10% was preserved for lightning talks.  The dev
sprint was happening parallel with the conference. The early slot was given to
workshops for both the days. One large conference hall was located on a 2nd
floor of the building and two halls were at a ground floor.  Food and beverages
were served nicely on the base floor.

![Panel discussion]({{site.url}}/assets/images/pydelhi_conf_2017/pannel_disussion.jpg)

<p class="center"> Panel Discussion </p>

![Desk]({{site.url}}/assets/images/pydelhi_conf_2017/desk.jpg)

<p class="center"> Registration desk </p>

![Lunch]({{site.url}}/assets/images/pydelhi_conf_2017/lunch.jpg)

<p class="center"> Tea break </p>


### Keynote speakers


![Richardo Rocha]({{site.url}}/assets/images/pydelhi_conf_2017/ricardo.jpg)

* [**Ricardo Rocha:**](
  https://www.linkedin.com/in/ricardo-rocha-739aa718/?ppe=1) Ricardo Rocha is a
  software engineer at [CERN][cern]. I got nice time to talk with him
  post-conference. We discussed what are his responsivities at [CERN][cern]. I
  was impressed when he explained how he is managing infrastructure with his
  team. On inquiring opportunities available at [CERN][cern] he mentioned that
  the organization is always looking for the talented developers.  New grads can
  keep an eye on various Summer Internship Programs which are very similar to
  Google Summer of Code program.

![Chris Stucchio]({{site.url}}/assets/images/pydelhi_conf_2017/chris.jpg)

* [**Chris Stucchio:**](https://www.chrisstucchio.com/) Chris is director of
  Data Science at [Wingify/ VWO](https://vwo.com/). I found him physically fit
  compared to other software developers (mostly of India). I didn’t get much
  time to have a word with him. Keynote speech provided by him was very much
  impressive.


### Interesting Talks

Because I took the wrong metro, I was late to reach at the conference venue on
time and with that reason, I missed the inaugural ceremony and the keynote given
by Mr.Ricardo Rocha.

* [**Let’s talk about GIL by Mr.Amit Kumar:**](
  https://youtu.be/CwTnUvHo6d8?list=PL3Aq1JLV2oFZFzSGsDUcc6BieBEvUDzJg)
  [Mr.Amit](http://iamit.in/) discussed various ways to trace threads first and
  then moved the track towards Global Interpreter Lock. He described why the GIL
  is important in CPython.

* [**Concurrency in Python 3.0 world - Oh my! by Mr.Anand Pillai:**](
  https://youtu.be/QCZ31d9dqF4?list=PL3Aq1JLV2oFZFzSGsDUcc6BieBEvUDzJg)
  [Mr.Anand][mr_anand] is having more than a two-decade experience of
  programming using Python programming language. He is one of those great
  programmers I like to have a discussion during the conferences. He explained
  great async IO features which can be leveraged for boosting your program. I
  got few nice references on async by him after his talk.


* [**Property based testing 101 by Aniket
  Maithani:**](https://youtu.be/n5xUTcsrRns) I always enjoy chit chatting with
  [Mr.Aniket](http://www.aniketmaithani.net/) during the conferences. He has
  nice jolly nature and always prepared with one liner. He discussed various
  strategies for generating demo data for your test case. I was amazed by his
  references, tips and tricks for generating test data.

I love to discuss more with people rather than attending talks. With that core
reason, I always end the conference by losing some important talks. But I do not
forget to watch them when they are uploaded. This year I missed following nice
talks.

* [**Optimizing Django for building high-performance systems by Mr.Sanyam
  Khurana**](https://youtu.be/I41LTEWzluU)

* [**Mocking in Python by Mr.Saurabh Kumar**](https://youtu.be/xo9QhfaefzY)


### Volunteer Party

I got a warm invitation by the organizers of the conference to join the
volunteer party, but I was little tensed about my session on the next day. So, I
decided to go home and modified my slides till late night. I heard from friends
that the party was awesome!


### Workshop session by me

![Tango with Django]({{site.url}}/assets/images/pydelhi_conf_2017/talk_2.jpg)

<p class="center"> Me conducting workshop </p>

I conducted a workshop on Django web framework. “Tango with Django” was chosen
as a title with a thought of attracting beginners. I believe this title is
already the name of famous book solving the same purpose.


* [Slides](https://www.slideshare.net/jaysinhp/tango-with-django-78119081)

* [Video Youtube](https://youtu.be/jr6LWM7Yquk)


### Devsprint

![Devsprint]({{site.url}}/assets/images/pydelhi_conf_2017/devsprint.jpg)

<p class="center"> Me hacking at Dev sprint section </p>

Devsprint section was happening parallel with the conference at back side of the
two conference halls situated at ground floor. [Mr.Anand][mr_anand] was guiding
attendees on contributing to [Junction](https://github.com/pythonindia/junction)
I decided to test few issues of [CPython](https://github.com/python/cpython) but
didn’t do much. I was unable to identify what other projects were there. There
were a bunch of people working but didn’t found anything interesting. I would
like to appreciate the quality of chairs available in that room. After sitting
few minutes on that chair I have decided to buy the same for my home office.


### Why attend this conference?

* **Free Workshops:** The conference has great slot of talks and workshops.
  Workshops are being conducted by field experts without expecting any other
  fees. This can be one of the great advantages to leverage from this
  conference.

* **Student discounts:** If you are a student then you will receive a discount
  on the conference ticket.

* **Beginner friendly platform:** If you are novice speaker than submitting talk
  here is worth. The conference is not only expecting sessions from experts but
  also interested in presenting content for newbies.

* **Networking:** You will find senior employees of tech giants, owner of
  innovative startups, professors of Universities attending this conference. It
    can be a good opportunity for you to network with them.

* **Swags:** If you are swag hungry fellow then this conference is not for you.
  There was a conference kit containing a pen, a book and folder case along with
  nice conference T-shirt.


### What was missing?

* **Lecture hall arrangement:** I found it was quite difficult to travel to the
  second floor and come back again to ground floor. The elevator was not that
  species so I ended using staircase most of the time. I found most people were
  spending their time on the ground floor than attending talks upstairs.

* **No corporate stalls:** Despite having corporate sponsors like Microsoft I
  wasn’t able to observe any single corporate stalls by any company.

* **Devsprint venue:** I would expect a dev sprint should be arranged in a large
  hall where tables are small and collaborated. Here it was in a room designed
  for teleconference containing a circular large wooden table. This was not
  creating that fun environment to hack. Coordinators were less promoting about
  Dev sprints during the conference.


### Thank you PyDelhi community!

I would like to thank all the known, unknown volunteers who performed their best
in arranging this conference. Hoping positive for PyDelhi community and
encouraging them to arrange such conferences in the future.

* [Conference Photos](https://www.flickr.com/groups/pydelhi/)

* [Talk videos](https://www.youtube.com/playlist?list=PL3Aq1JLV2oFZFzSGsDUcc6BieBEvUDzJg)

[pydelhi_conf_2017]:https://conference.pydelhi.org
[pydelhi_community]:https://pydelhi.org/
[pydelhi_meetups]:http://wwww.meetup.com/pydelhi
[cern]:https://home.cern/
[mr_anand]:https://youtu.be/I41LTEWzluU
