---
layout: post
title: "Day 9806"
date: "2019-04-25 22:45:01 +0530"
tag:
  - daily
---

This is my first attempt to write a blog post describing my daily events.
Please forgive me if I am making any serious grammatical mistakes. This type of
posts will be written without or very less proofreading.

### Pranayam


I try to do Pranayam before going to my Yoga class. It takes around 20 minutes
to do below Pranayam.


* [Anulom vilom][anulom_vilom]


* [Bhastrika][bhastrika]


* [Kapalbhati][kapalbhati]


* [Bahya][bahya]


* [Udgeeth / Omkar chanting][udgeeth]





I do above pranayams by sitting in a [Padmasan / Lotus posture][padmasan].
During the Pranayam I keep my hands in [Jnana mudra][jnana_mudra]. I was doing
a little [Anapan meditation][anapan_meditation], but from last few months I am
unable to concentrate. I will try to get back to my Anapan Meditation again.
According to my observation, sleep has performed a major role in Meditation. I
end my Pranayam session by singing [Gayatri mantra][gayatri_mantra].

I skipped Pranayam session because I was late for my Yoga class Today.


### Yoga class and small running

While going to Yoga class, I did a slow jogging. It was nearly half kilometer.
It is very low compared to other runners, but I am trying hard to adjust my
body. I am planning to increase it step by step.


Yesterday I was awake until late night, so I woke up late Today. Today at Yoga
class I tried learning [Chakrasan][chakrasan]. Chakrasan wasn't looking this
much tough to do. I failed in my first attempt. My mentior gave some motivation
by saying that, "You are almost near. Try one more time". That words charged me
to do few more attemps. I was able to do a poor Chakrasan after 3 attemps. I
lost my energy after doing it 3 times. There were other routine body warming
excercises. I did 6 concecutive [Surya Namaskar][surya_namaskar]. I was able to
remember steps better than the previous day. Still, there were some
intereations when I was confused in step 7 and 8. Breething practice while
doing Surya Namaskar will become more appropriate after doing it for some time.
I have improved in it for sure.

### First half


This session invested in an important meeting. I was not able to do anything
else during this time.




### Secound half




#### End to End tests

In secound half, I wrote an [end to end test][end_to_end_pr] for my solutions
of Programming challenges book. I preferred this tests in Python because I
wasn't having any quick choices. While writing this, I realized below things to
improve.


* End to end tests should be parked at top-level directory of the project. This
* makes them isolated from the source code. End to end tests are different from
* unit tests. Unit tests should be parked with files or modules.


* There is a need to write a utility which does end to end tests for any
* program. This utility will accept test definition in [YAML][yaml] and perform
* tests according to it. This utility invokes program, feeds given input and
* asserts that the program is returning expected output. I am planning to write
* solutions for problems of similar domain. This utility can be shared between
* all of them. I will try to plan out tasks and expected time tomorrow.




#### GeeksForGeeks solutions

I have decided to solve random problems from [GeeksForGeeks][geeksforgeeks]
website. I tried solving [Maximum in Struct Array
problem][geeksforgeeks_problem]. Please find my in-progress work at [this
branch][geeksforgeeks_branch]. I will try to update the description of project
soon. Tomorrow I will try to continue a solution for in-progress problem.


[anulom_vilom]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Anuloma_pranayama


[bhastrika]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Bhastrika


[kapalbhati]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Kapalabhati


[bahya]: https://www.sarvyoga.com/bahya-pranayam-steps-and-benefits/


[udgeeth]: https://www.sarvyoga.com/udgeeth-pranayama-steps-and-benefits/


[padmasan]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lotus_position


[jnana_mudra]: https://vinyasayogatraining.com/resources/symbolism-jnana-mudra/


[gayatri_mantra]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Gayatri_Mantra


[chakrasan]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Chakrasana


[surya_namaskar]: https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Surya_Namaskara


[end_to_end_tests_pr]:
https://github.com/ultimatecoder/programming_challenges/pull/1


[geeksforgeeks_problem]:
https://practice.geeksforgeeks.org/problems/maximum-in-struct-array/1


[geeksforgeeks_branch]: https://github.com/ultimatecoder/geeksforgeek
