---
layout: post
title: "Day 9808"
date: "2019-04-26 12:28:13 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
---

## Yogaclass and little running

I was awake till late Yesterday night. I woke up late around 9 AM, for that
reason I missed my Yogaclass and an opportunity to run a little

## First half

As per my experiences of previous day, I thought to write a utility for
automating the task of testing command line programs. I have two code
repositories which are similar in nature. One of them is solutions for
[GeeksForGeeks][geeksforgeeks] website and another one is solutions for problems
in the book [Programming challenges][programming_language_challenges]. Rather
than directly beginning with writing the framework, I thought to ask at
[#emacs][emacs_freenode] and [#bash][bash_freenode] IRC channels. From the
discussion with the people, I found that there is already a popular utility for
the purpose I was thinking to solve via program.

[Expect][expect] is the utility for testing command line programs. This
framework was suggested by `ski` user from [#emacs][emacs_freenode]. From my
this experience I learnt that one should first search at Search engines,
Stackoverflow, Ask friends, co-workers for your problem. If your problem is not
already solved, then you should think to invest your energy in writing anything
from scratch. Rest of the time of first half I spent in reading/exploring
[tutorials of expect][expect_tutorial]. I dropped the idea of writing yet
another utility for automatically testing command line programs. I created tasks
issues for migrating end to end tests from Python based approaches to
[expect][expect] scripts. You can find my issues for [GeeksForGeeks solutions
here][issue_geeksforgeeks] and [Programming challenges solutions
here][issue_programming_challenges].
