---
layout: post
title: "Day progress 9940"
date: "2019-09-05 14:04:30 +0530"
tags:
  - daily
  - locale
---

## Morning

I woke up around 10:30 AM. I think it has became my daily routine now. After
waking up, I spent reasonable amount of time browsing LinkedIn, talking with my
friend. I took bath, took brunch and reached co-working space around 12:00 PM.

## First Half

I replied to pending emails. Followed up recruiters over email and calls.

Then I improved description of Narad and uploaded system diagram of it. After
uploading system diagram, I talked with Prof. Chhanga and Dhavan individually
over phone call. Explained how I improved Narad for processing large file with
duplicated records.

Then I discussed my approach over a few IRC channels. People suggested various
improvements, and non of them werer related to system design so I have decided
to skim them for now.

I received a task from Locale. Quick skimming tells that this task is exactly
same as what I did for FulFill IO company. If I am interested, I have to
complete this task in one week. I will have to strongly think about my future
with this company.

I applied at uSwitch and one company which is hiring for Germany mentioned by
Chetan.

Yesterday I had planned to solve HR questions during this time. All of my
morning hours are wested in different things. From tomorrow, I will asign
dedicated hours at LinkedIn and emails and focus rest of my day solving computer
science problems.


## Second half

In second half I focused on solving Data structure and Algorithm problems of
Hackerrank which I had collected Yesterday.

I tried to solve below problems.

#### [Non-divisible subset](https://www.hackerrank.com/challenges/non-divisible-subset/problem)

#### [Queen's Attach](https://www.hackerrank.com/challenges/queens-attack-2/problem)

#### [Maximum Palindrome](https://www.hackerrank.com/challenges/maximum-palindromes/problem)

#### [Chocolate in Box](https://www.hackerrank.com/challenges/chocolate-in-box/problem)

#### [Is a binary search tree](https://www.hackerrank.com/challenges/is-binary-search-tree/problem)

#### [The Great XOR problem](https://www.hackerrank.com/challenges/the-great-xor/problem)

#### [Components in Graph](https://www.hackerrank.com/challenges/components-in-graph/problem)

#### [Minimum Panalty Path](https://www.hackerrank.com/challenges/beautiful-path/problem)


I am poorly fail in my first round. I was unable to solve any of given problems.
I was able to write few lines of code for "The Great XOR problem". It passed up
to some test cases using a bruit force approach, but I then failed with time
error for more than have of test cases.

All of these problems were from Medium category of Hackerrank. This were
combination of Algorithm and Data structure questions.

After such poor performance I am clear that cracking Hackerrank test will not be
a easy task. After taking a break of 1 and half hour, I tried to solve a few
easy difficulty questions from Algorithm category, but I even failed in that
category. Below questions I tried to solve.

#### [Kangaroo](https://www.hackerrank.com/challenges/kangaroo)

#### [Two characters](https://www.hackerrank.com/challenges/two-characters/problem)

I even failed in solving these easy category questions. I am sure I should take
time in preparing hard for Hackerrank tests. I will focus on solving easy
category questions tomorrow and revise things to which I am not confident about.

After attempting these tests, I am happy that Hackerrank don't share input test
cases even while practicing for problems. This is equivalent as their
environment during tests.

Second thing I realized is, in given set of problems, I don't think any company
will ask all questions of same difficulty level. There will be combination of
two or one easy questions and one or more than one medium question. Questions
which seems easy should be afforded less time and questions which are difficult
should assign more time compared to them. Difficulty of questions can be judged
by marks assigned to them.

Test of Air Asia contains 2 questions, but test of Booking.com contains 4
questions. If I want to get hired by them, then I have to focus on preparing
hard for them.


## Tomorrow

I will spent entire day solving one question of easy category and questions
which has more ratio of acceptance. This I will do for solving at least one
question from each category of Algorithm and Data structure.

I will make notes for one of Amazon's leadership principles.
